What would we do without forest?
Forests help to sustain our supply of fresh water.
They purify the air, and forests convert carbon dioxide into life-sustaining oxygen.
Yes, forests are vital to our existence.
Yet scientists warn that we're in danger of losing this precious resource.
This causes some people to wonder whether God cares about what's happening to the forest.
We may even ask, will the loss of forest affect God's ability to fulfill His promise to make the earth a paradise?
The simple answer to that question is absolutely not.
Jehovah has everything under control.
Please watch the following video.
It will strengthen your faith in the designer of the forest.
Trees can grow very strong and withstand powerful forces.
But if they didn't decompose after they die,
trees and leaves would pile up with their nutrients locked away inside.
Yet they do decompose.
How?
Most animals cannot eat fallen wood and leaves.
But fungi can, they break down the dead plant tissues, making them softer.
Beetles and termites bore through the wood exposing more surface area and spreading the fungi inside.
Which soften it further so that other insects can enjoy the feast.
Earthworms aerate the soil and pull nutrients down where they can be used by other plants.
Most decomposes have been called the unsung heroes of the natural world.
They recycle organic matter so that it is available to support new life.
Through this process, Jehovah made it possible for us to enjoy earth's lush beauty.
Generation after generation.
Let the fields and everything in them rejoice.
At the same time that all the trees of the forest shout joyfully.
Amazing!
Will you ever look at a forest in the same way again?
Think about what the decomposition and recycling of organic matter means for us and our future.
Those beetles, termites and earthworms, the unsung heroes of the natural world
will keep on doing their job throughout eternity.
Reflect for a moment.
If Jehovah had the wisdom to create forests that can replenish themselves,
surely he knows how to undo the damage that man has done to the earth.
Jehovah hasn't revealed all the details of how he's going to restore the earth,
but we can be confident that he will fulfill his promise to make all things new.
Please open your Bibles to Psalm 37, verses 10, 11 and 29.
The scripture contains a promise regarding man and the earth.
Psalm 37, verses 10, 11 and 29 reads,
just a little while longer and the wicked will be no more.
You will look at where they were and they will not be there,
but the meek will possess the earth and they will find exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.
The righteous will possess the earth and they will live forever on it.
How reassuring people who are righteous and meek will be on the earth forever
and that earth will be a paradise, but there are at least two requirements for Jehovah to accomplish this.
He's already taken care of the first requirement, we saw proof of that in the video.
Jehovah created the forest with an amazing rejuvenation system.
So in spite of man's prolonged misuse of the forest, Jehovah has already put in place the mechanism
to undo all the damage that man has done.
Doesn't the marvelous design of the forest build your faith in Jehovah's promise of a paradise?
The second requirement to make the earth a paradise is described in verse 10 of Psalm 37 that we
just read. There it says, and the wicked will be no more. Not only will Jehovah undo the damage
that men have done, but he will also remove the source of the problem.
Greedy men who exploit and misuse this precious resource will be gone.
Therefore, we have no reason to fear that humans will continue to run the earth until it reaches
the point of no return. Jehovah knows what is going on. Please open your Bibles to Revelation chapter 11
and we'll read verse 18. This scripture assures us that Jehovah cares about our planet because
it is his planet and it confirms that he is going to hold men accountable for their actions.
Revelation chapter 11 verse 18 says, but the nations became wrathful and your own wrath came
and the appointed time came for the dead to be judged and to reward your slaves the prophets
and the holy ones and those fearing your name the small and the great and to bring to ruin those
running the earth. Jehovah is not going to let wicked men run his beautiful creation.
Nothing can stop Jehovah from carrying out his purpose for the earth.
Our examination of the forest has strengthened our faith that Jehovah will accomplish everything
that he has in mind to do. The words of faithful Job reflect our conviction that that promise
will come true. As recorded at Job chapter 42 verse 2, Job was moved to declare regarding Jehovah,
now I know that you are able to do all things and that nothing you have in mind to do
is impossible for you. What does Jehovah have in mind to do? One thing is to transform the earth
into a paradise with rich abundant forest. Forests that will continue to help sustain our
supply of fresh water to purify our air and to convert carbon dioxide into oxygen.
The video that we just watched quoted Psalm 96 verse 12 which declares that the trees of the
forest shout joyfully by their very existence forest praise their creator and we can add our joyful
shouts of praise to those of the forest. Therefore may we continue to use creation to build our faith
because if we do that we will see the restored life-sustaining forest bring happiness to perfect
humans and praise to their creator Jehovah forever. Brother Len Myers, a helper to the writing
committee will now present the next talk of this symposium. Use creation to build your faith,
wind and water.